style: apply /style-guide pass to models/sweeps (#2722)
wandb/docs: models/sweeps/define-sweep-configuration.mdx

---

A sweep combines a strategy for exploring hyperparameter values with the code that evaluates them. The strategy can be as simple as trying every option or as complex as Bayesian Optimization and Hyperband ([BOHB](https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.01774)).

> This guide shows you how to author a sweep configuration that specifies which hyperparameters to search, which search strategy to use, and how to evaluate each run. Use it when you're setting up a new sweep or adapting an existing configuration to a different search method or parameter space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide shows you how to define a sweep configuration that specifies which hyperparameters to search, which search strategy to use, and how to evaluate each run. Use it when you're setting up a new sweep or adapting an existing configuration to a different search method or parameter space.
```

Author: Applied: changed "author" to "define".

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

Define a sweep configuration either in a [Python dictionary](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#dictionaries) or a [YAML](https://yaml.org/) file. How you define your sweep configuration depends on how you want to manage your sweep.

<Note>
Define your sweep configuration in a YAML file if you want to initialize a sweep and start a sweep agent from the command line. Define your sweep in a Python dictionary if you initialize a sweep and start a sweep entirely within a Python script or notebook.
</Note>

The following sections describe how to format your sweep configuration. See [Sweep configuration options](/models/sweeps/sweep-config-keys) for a comprehensive list of top-level sweep configuration keys.

## Basic structure

> Both sweep configuration format options (YAML and Python dictionary) use key-value pairs and nested structures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sweep configurations are defined using either YAML or a Python dictionary, with key-value pairs and nested structures.
```

Author: Applied your suggestion.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

> Use top-level keys within your sweep configuration to define qualities of your sweep search. These qualities include the name of the sweep ([`name`](/models/sweeps/sweep-config-keys) key), the parameters to search through ([`parameters`](/models/sweeps/sweep-config-keys#parameters) key), the methodology to search the parameter space ([`method`](/models/sweeps/sweep-config-keys#method) key), and more.

Reviewer: I'm noticing lots of things like this where there is a noun, and then the same noun in code font in parentheses. I think you could collapse them somehow. It feels redundant.

Author: Collapsed the redundant "noun (`code` key)" pattern here to "the sweep [`name`], the [`parameters`] to search through, and the search [`method`]". Also cleaned up the same pattern in `add-w-and-b-to-your-code.mdx` (the config/lr/batch_size/epochs glosses and the metric goal/name).

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

For example, the following code snippets show the same sweep configuration defined within a YAML file and within a Python dictionary. The sweep configuration specifies five top-level keys: `program`, `name`, `method`, `metric`, and `parameters`.

<Tabs>
<Tab title="CLI">

> Define a sweep configuration in a YAML file if you want to manage sweeps interactively from the command line (CLI).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manage sweeps interactively from the command line, define a sweep configuration in a YAML file.
```

Author: Applied your suggestion.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

</Tabs>

The top-level `parameters` key nests the following keys: `learning_rate`, `batch_size`, `epochs`, and `optimizer`. For each nested key you specify, you can provide one or more values, a distribution, a probability, and more. For more information, see the [parameters](/models/sweeps/sweep-config-keys#parameters) section in [Sweep configuration options](/models/sweeps/sweep-config-keys).

> ## Double nested parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Double-nested parameters
```
https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#double-tap

Author: Applied: "Double-nested parameters". The anchor slug is unchanged (`double-nested-parameters`), and there are no inbound links to it, so nothing breaks.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

Use nested parameters when you want to group related hyperparameters together or when your training code expects a nested configuration structure. To define a nested parameter, include an additional `parameters` key under the top-level parameter name.

The following example shows a sweep configuration with nested parameters `nested_category_1`, `nested_category_2`, and `nested_category_3`. Each nested parameter includes the additional parameters `momentum` and `weight_decay`.

> The following code snippets show how to define nested parameters in both a YAML file and a Python dictionary:

Reviewer: Consolidate and streamline these two paragraphs, which each look like intros.

Author: Consolidated the two intro paragraphs into one.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

</Tabs>

> The top-level `parameters` key nests the following keys: `learning_rate`, `batch_size`, `epoch`, and `optimizer`. For each nested key you specify, you can provide one or more values, a distribution, a probability, and more. For more information, see the [parameters](/models/sweeps/sweep-config-keys#parameters) section in [Sweep configuration options](/models/sweeps/sweep-config-keys).

Author: Fixed in fbe829847 — changed `epoch` to `epochs` so the prose matches the `epochs` key used in both the YAML and Python examples in this section.

1. Create a top level `parameters` key in your sweep config.
2. Within the `parameters`key, nest the following:
   1. Specify the name of hyperparameter you want to optimize.
   2. Specify the distribution you want to use for the `distribution` key. Nest the `distribution` key-value pair underneath the hyperparameter name.
   3. Specify one or more values to explore. The value (or values) should be inline with the distribution key.

>       1. (Optional) Use an additional parameters key under the top level parameter name to delineate a nested parameter. */}

Reviewer: This is too much nesting. Note that this whole block from 217 to 226 is in a comment so won't be visible.

Author: Removed both dead `{/* ... */}` comment blocks entirely — they were obsolete and never rendered.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

    },
}

sweep_id = wandb.sweep(sweep=sweep_configuration, project="[PROJECT]")
wandb.agent(sweep_id, function=main, count=4)
```

During a sweep run, `run.config["nested_param"]` reflects the subtree defined by the sweep configuration (`learning_rate` and `double_nested_param`). It doesn't include `manual_key`, which is defined in `wandb.init(config=...)`.
</Warning>

## Sweep configuration template

Use this template as a starting point when authoring a new sweep configuration. It illustrates the most common parameter and early-termination patterns so you can copy it and fill in the values for your own search.

> The following template shows how you can configure parameters and specify search constraints. Replace `hyperparameter_name` with the name of your hyperparameter and any values enclosed in brackets.

Reviewer: Consolidate and streamline these two intro paragraphs

Author: Consolidated the two template intro paragraphs into one and dropped the "when authoring" framing.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

<Tabs>

> <Tab title="Maximum number of iterations">

Author: Fixed in fbe829847. This example (`min_iter: 3`, brackets `[3, 9, 27, 81]`) is the minimum-iterations case, so I swapped the tab titles rather than the content: this tab is now **Minimum number of iterations**, and the `max_iter`/`s` tab is **Maximum number of iterations**. That also matches the "minimum or maximum" order in the intro sentence.

```
</Tab>

> <Tab title="Minimum number of iterations">

Author: Fixed in fbe829847 — paired with the swap above. This `max_iter: 27` / `s: 2` example (brackets `[9, 3]`) is now titled **Maximum number of iterations**.

  - "--optimizer=${optimizer}"
  - "--test=True"
```

> The associated Python script (`run.py`) can then parse these command-line arguments using the `argparse` module:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The associated Python script `run.py` can then parse these command-line arguments using the `argparse` module:
```

Author: Applied your suggestion (removed the parentheses around `run.py`).

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

  - "--optimizer=${optimizer}"
  - "--test=True"
```

The associated Python script (`run.py`) can then parse these command-line arguments using the `argparse` module:

```python title="run.py"
# run.py
import wandb
import argparse

> 

Author: Fixed in fbe829847 — added the `str2bool` definition to the `run.py` example so the file runs as-is. It mirrors the helper described in the Boolean arguments section later on the page.

>     run.log({'validation_loss':1})

Author: Fixed in fbe829847. Confirmed against the `wandb.init` reference that the first positional argument is `entity`, so passing `'test-project'` positionally would set the entity. Changed it to `wandb.init(project="test-project")`.
